Paper revised version (#101)
OPM/pyopmspe11: paper/paper.md

# Statement of need

Geological carbon storage (GCS) applications benefit from both commercial and open-source simulators. 
However, using numerical simulators often involves data preprocessing and postprocessing, which can be 
challenging for everyone even if you know what you are doing. Additionally, setting up and running simulations 
requires computational expertise. To bridge this gap, developers can simplify the setup of numerical studies by 
using user-friendly approaches, such as configuration files. This not only ensures reproducibility of results but 
also facilitates flexible testing of different simulator parameters and allows for easy extension to further studies.
Notable works are available in JOSS for pre-/postprocessing of simulation data, e.g., @Beucher:2019, @Sullivan:2019, @Fraters:2024, @Kaus:2024.
Examples of tools which application is also in GCS and relies on the OPM Flow simulator
are `pyopmnearwell` [@Landa-Marbán:2023] and `expreccs` [@Landa-Marbán:2024]. The former focuses on near well dynamics, while the 
latter on seamless, dynamic, and non-invasive exchange of pressure-related information between local and regional scales. 

> Based on the acquired knowledge by developing the aforementioned tools, as well as from using/contributing to other open-source projects, then we have developed and made open the `pyopmspe11` tool which facilitates reproducible solutions to the SPE11 benchmark, which focus on GCS at different scales [@Nordbotten:2024]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the acquired knowledge by developing the aforementioned tools, as well as from using/contributing to other open-source projects, we have developed and made open the `pyopmspe11` tool. `pyopmspe11` facilitates reproducible solutions to the SPE11 benchmark, which focuses on GCS at different scales [@Nordbotten:2024]. 
```

> A previous benchmark study for GCS can be found in @Class:2009. One key differece of the SPE11 benchmark from the previous one is that no grids were given in the description, i.e., one of the main task for the participants was to create suitable grids (e.g., structured grids such as Cartesian or unscrtuctured grids such as corner-point grids). The participants were encouraged to share data (e.g., input decks, code, submitted results), with the opportunity to store the data for open access. This is where developing tools that made all steps reprodubible (i.e., preprocessing and postprocessing) become handy, and for this benchmark study, one available tool is `pyopmspe11`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A previous benchmark study for GCS can be found in @Class:2009. One key differece of the SPE11 benchmark from the previous one is that no grids were given in the description, i.e., one of the main task for the participants was to create suitable grids (e.g., structured grids such as Cartesian or unstructured grids such as corner-point grids). The participants were encouraged to share data (e.g., input decks, code, submitted results), with the opportunity to store the data for open access. This is where developing tools that made all steps reproducible (i.e., preprocessing and postprocessing) become handy, and for this benchmark study, one available tool is `pyopmspe11`.
```

`pyopmspe11` is a simplified and flexible Python tool to execute the three cases in the SPE Comparative Solution
Project using configuration files. `pyopmspe11` relies on the OPM Flow numerical simulator [@Rassmussen:2021], where the
implementation of the CO$_2$ model can be found in @Sandve:2021. The primary contribution of `pyopmspe11` lies in its 
data preprocessing and postprocessing capabilities. It offers flexibility in generating various types of grids, 
including Cartesian, tensor, and corner-point grids. These grids adhere to the standard industry format (i.e., Eclipse grid format), making them 

> compatible not only with OPM Flow but also with other simulators. Here, we mention two existing widely-use visualization/postrocessing software for OPM Flow: [ParaView](https://www.paraview.org) and [ResInsight](https://resinsight.org). While these tools are very useful, to the authors knolwedge, there is no existing functionality in these tools to handle all the necessary postporcessing to generate all data reporting as required in the SPE11 benchmark study. For example, to write the csv maps of the quantities from a simulation grid to a given reporting grid, where both grids do not overlap, or to compute the convective mixing as defined in Eq. (17) in [@Nordbotten:2024]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compatible not only with OPM Flow but also with other simulators. Here, we mention two existing widely-use visualization/postprocessing software for OPM Flow: [ParaView](https://www.paraview.org) and [ResInsight](https://resinsight.org). While these tools are very useful, to the authors knowledge, there is no existing functionality in these tools to generate all postprocessed data as required in the SPE11 benchmark study. For example, to write the csv maps of the quantities from a simulation grid to a given reporting grid, where both grids do not overlap, or to compute the convective mixing as defined in Eq. (17) in [@Nordbotten:2024]. 
```

Not sure the last sentence is quite correct (you can do a lot of interpolation to other specified grids and/or complex calculations (even embedded python functions) inside Paraview. However, I of course see the benefit of having all that already readily created in a specialized tool, so feel free to keep the sentence.

Reviewer 2: Bias disclosure: I am a maintainer of PyVista.

I am not well versed in all of the requirements for the SPE11 benchmark postprocessing.  However, the example given of writing a csv file corresponding to points on a reporting grid sampled from a simulation grid can be done in some of the tools listed here.  For example from PyVista referenced elsewhere in the paper, there is a similar example here https://docs.pyvista.org/examples/01-filter/resample.  And, then writing to csv can be done given the numpy-like nature of data access in PyVista.  So I think the tools listed can likely _generate_ the post-proccessed data, particularly when multiple tools are used together, but to get it right requires a lot of development.  There is a lot of value in a standard post-processing tool for a benchmark like this.  Otherwise, different researchers might get differing results solely due to post-processing artifacts.

So I recommend rewording these sentences to focus on the advantages of pyopmsep11 here instead of saying that these tools cannot generate the data.

Reviewer 2: This is also not a full sentence:

> For example, to write the csv maps of the quantities from a simulation grid to a given reporting grid, where both grids do not overlap, or to compute the convective mixing as defined in Eq. (17) in [@Nordbotten:2024].

`pyopmspe11` supports varying resolutions, having been tested to generate up to 160 million cells. In the context of data postprocessing, `pyopmspe11` not only 
generates the necessary reporting data as specified by the benchmark, but it also produces .png figures for rapid inspection 
of individual simulations and for making comparisons between different runs (e.g., to assess sensitivities). The postprocessing 

> methods efficiently interpolates quantities over time and map non-overlapping cell values (both intensive and extensive quantities) between the simulation grid and the reporting grid. The Python package Scipy [@Virtanen:2020], specifically the interp1d Class, is used for the time interpolation. The Python package Shapely [@Gillies:2024], speficically the Polygon Class, is the base for the developed methods in `pyopmspe11` to handle the mapping from the simulation grid to the reporting grid. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
methods efficiently interpolates quantities over time and map non-overlapping cell values (both intensive and extensive quantities) between the simulation grid and the reporting grid. The Python package Scipy [@Virtanen:2020], specifically the interp1d Class, is used for the time interpolation. The Python package Shapely [@Gillies:2024], specifically the Polygon Class, is the base for the developed methods in `pyopmspe11` to handle the mapping from the simulation grid to the reporting grid. 
```
